Revised Airflow section (#89)
moj-analytical-services/user-guidance: source/documentation/airflow.md

There are a few key concepts of Airflow:

> - an Airflow task is defined with python code by a Directed Acyclic Graph (DAG), which is made up of one or more ordered (directed) connected tasks (graph), without loops (acyclic)

Author: I was trying to adapt the exisitng, but better to rewrite entirely.

12. Merge the pull request into the master branch.

### (1) Create a new repository from the Airflow template

To create a new repository from the Airflow template:

- Go to the [`template-airflow-python`](https://github.com/moj-analytical-services/template-airflow-python) repository.
- Select **Use this template**.
- Fill in the form:
   - Owner: `moj-analytical-services`
   - Name: The name of your repo prefixied with `airflow-`, for example, `airflow-my-repo`
   - Privacy: Internal (refer to the [public, internal and private repositories](github.html#public-internal-and-private-repositories) section)
- Select **Create repository from template**.

This copies the entire contents of the Airflow template to a new repository.

#### **Clone the repository**

To clone the repository:

-  Navigate to the repository on GitHub.
-  Select **Clone or download**.
-  Ensure that the dialogue says 'Clone with SSH'. If the dialogue says 'Clone with HTTPS' select **Use SSH**.
-  Copy the SSH URL. This should start with `git@`.
-  In RStudio, select **File** > **New project...** > **Version control** > **Git**.
-  Paste the SSH URL in the **Repository URL** field.

> -  Select **Create Project**.

Author: Because it sits within a broader enumeration - I noticed that there was a subheading for each of the previous enumerated points so I made that explict and got rid of these. I don't think it loses anything by not being numbered, given they aren't referenced anywhere.

6.  Paste the SSH URL in the **Repository URL** field.
7.  Select **Create Project**.

### (9) Create a DAG script

A DAG is defined in a Python script. An two examples of a DAG script are outlined below. One using the `basic_kubernetes_pod_operator` and the other the `KubernetesPodOperator`. Note that the `basic_kubernetes_pod_operator` is a function created and managed by the Data Engineering Team to make it easier to run tasks on your sandboxed airflow instance or the main airflow deployment. If you require something with more functionality the we suggest using the full `KubernetesPodOperator`. Examples of both are below.

#### Example DAG (basic_kubernetes_pod_operator)

<details>

> <summary>Click for basic_kubernetes_pod_operator code sample</summary>

Reviewer: The code within this (and the subsequent block) doesn't render correctly. Presumably because you're nesting markdown within HTML. I would suggest either leaving the code blocks as is or putting them on GitHub and linking to them there.

Deploying your Airflow sandbox will create an `airflow` folder in your home directory on the Analytical Platform. This folder contains three subfolders: `db`, `dags` and `logs`.

Once you have deployed your Airflow sandbox, you should store the script for the DAG you want to test in the `airflow/dags` folder in your home directory on the Analytical Platform. Airflow scans this folder every three minutes and will automatically detect your DAG.

To ensure that your DAG runs correctly, you should set the `ROLE` variable in your DAG script to be your own IAM role on the Analytical Platform. This is your GitHub username in lowercase prefixed with `alpha_user_`. For example, if your GitHub username was `Octocat-MoJ`, your IAM role would be `alpha_user_octocat-moj`.

You should also set the `NAMESPACE` variable in your DAG script to be your own namespace on the Analytical Platform. This is your GitHub username in lowercase prefixed with `user-`. For example, if your GitHub username was `Octocat-MoJ`, your namespace would be `user-octocat-moj`.

You should only use your Airflow sandbox for testing purposes.

## Troubleshooting

> If a task fails in Airflow, you can click on it and view the logs. The final few lines before `Event with job id your-task-id-9stuff876 Failed` should indicate the problem. As always, it is a good idea to have print statements in your code to help identify the stage at which it failed.

Reviewer: 'Select' is preferable to 'click' from an accessibility point of view.

Here are some common errors you might encounter:

> - **DAG doesn't start on schedule** Before initial use, a DAG needs to be switched on using the Airflow UI (toggle in top left). If you used the homepage toggles, please be very careful not to turn off other critical DAGs. The Airflow UI can misbehave a lot and sometimes the homepage toggles are just wrong, so better to use the toggle within a DAG menu.

Reviewer: I think these might be better as sections with subheadings as opposed to a bullet list.

> - **ERROR - Pod Launching failed: Pod took too long to start** Usually this happens when the image referenced in Airflow does not exist. This could be because you haven't made a Github release, or because Concourse has failed to build it, either because of an error in the image or Concourse itself. You can check the status within Concourse (image -> Deploy -> top right) to see the latest build version, and prompt a build with the + button. Brand new images will need to be 'unpaused' in the Concourse UI. Subsequent images should build automatically after a Github release, provided they use an incremental v0.0.0 format. Occasionally this error may happen randomly, in which case you should use task retries.

Reviewer: Could '(image -> Deploy -> top right)' be made clearer. There may be something on this in another section that you can link to.

Author: Certainly. There is some other stuff on concourse, but the document is pretty bloated and fragmented now. I think a better solution would be to restructure the whole thing really, and have dedicated 'Using Concourse / Airflow / etc.' chapters, which are then linked to from within dedicated tutorial chapters.

<details>
<summary>You should select this from a list available on the AP.</summary>

```
593291632749.dkr.ecr.eu-west-1.amazonaws.com/python:3.7
593291632749.dkr.ecr.eu-west-1.amazonaws.com/python:3.7-slim
593291632749.dkr.ecr.eu-west-1.amazonaws.com/python:alpine3.10
593291632749.dkr.ecr.eu-west-1.amazonaws.com/python:slim
593291632749.dkr.ecr.eu-west-1.amazonaws.com/python:3.7-slim-buster
593291632749.dkr.ecr.eu-west-1.amazonaws.com/python:alpine3.9
593291632749.dkr.ecr.eu-west-1.amazonaws.com/python:3.6
593291632749.dkr.ecr.eu-west-1.amazonaws.com/python:3.6-slim
593291632749.dkr.ecr.eu-west-1.amazonaws.com/r-base:3.5.0
593291632749.dkr.ecr.eu-west-1.amazonaws.com/rocker:shiny-3.4.2
593291632749.dkr.ecr.eu-west-1.amazonaws.com/amancevice:pandas-0.25.2
593291632749.dkr.ecr.eu-west-1.amazonaws.com/moj-spark-jovyan:baseenv
593291632749.dkr.ecr.eu-west-1.amazonaws.com/nginx-unprivileged:stable-alpine
593291632749.dkr.ecr.eu-west-1.amazonaws.com/continuumio:miniconda3
593291632749.dkr.ecr.eu-west-1.amazonaws.com/pottava:s3-proxy
```

</details>

> Additionally you will want to install specific Python or R packages that you use in your code. You can do this with `RUN pip install -r requirements.txt` as referenced above. To be robust, you should pin all versions (`package==1.2.0`). For complicated installations this is best done by activating a conda environment:

Reviewer: Is our position to still recommend using conda, given all the problems it causes?

Author: As I understand it using conda is unavoidable in some circumstances. It would benefit from noting what those circumstances are, but I'd need to make sure I know what I'm talking about first.

### Scripting concerns

All Dockerfiles need an `ENTRYPOINT`, which sets the inital action taken when the image runs. Typically this will be a shell command to run a program and script, eg. `ENTRYPOINT python -u scripts/run.py`, or `ENTRYPOINT Rscript scripts/run.R`. You can set any script control logic within the entrypoint script.
You should be mindful of the working directory when working with Docker images (that is, the path from which programs see other files relatively). This should be reflected in any file path references in your code. A good convention would be to keep the root level of the repo as the working directory within your code, and preserve the file structure in your Dockerfile. You can set the workng directory within a Dockerfile with `WORKDIR`.

> There is a list of Dockerfile commands and documentation [here](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/builder/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is a list of `Dockerfile` commands and documentation on the [Docker website](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/builder/).
```
